DAO Canvas (#23)
Developer-DAO/community: dao-canvas-template.md

- Value capture and rewarding / incentivizing contributions
- To provide liquid community ownership

### Big picture impact of the DAO

By fostering an environment that supports achieving our mission/values/goals, Developer DAO can become the go to community for developers looking to meet and build relationships with other devs, for on-boarding existing web2 engineering talent into web3, for developer jobs, and a platform for launching and collaborating on new ideas.

Developer DAO enables shared ownership of and for a community of developers who are at the forefront of building the future of the internet.

Being a Developer DAO alumni should mean something. (Could we use NFT's to make level of contribution public and non-fungible?)

Things to think about (might be narrow in scope of this but unsure):

- Building a treasury to funding members projects
- Being a go to resource for DAO's looking for engineering talent (in exchange for tokens/on-chain revenue)
- Media DAO arm, documenting our journey, running events, brand partnerships

### What do we need to achieve our goals?

Now:

- Consensus on mission, values and goals.
- Consistent cadence for coordination and collaboration.

> - Establish a core team responsible for executing the mission of the DAO on an day-to-day/ongoing basis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Establish a core team responsible for executing the mission of the DAO on a day-to-day/ongoing basis.
```

- System for recognising and rewarding collaboration (outside of any financial rewards).
- Process/framework for decentralised decision making based on our mission/values and goals.

Future:

- Value capture and fair distribution of ownership
- Growth of a treasury/funding to support community projects

> I've been picturing it like Bankless (other DAO's seasons). Something along the lines of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inspiration is drawn from Bankless (other DAO's) seasons. Something along the lines of the following:
```

**Season 0**

Season 0 (to end of October/November?)

- Finalizing our mission statement/manifesto + publishing this
- Coms/decision making flow and where each happens)
- Org structure (team, roles)
- How do we plan to recognise and reward contributions
- Branding and V1 website (about, on-site minting, docs?, mission statement)

> - Token allocation and distribution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Exploration of token allocation and distribution
```

- Focus for season 1

**Season 1** (Decided by community)

## Community

## Project backstory

The project was started as an experiment by [Nader Dabit](https://twitter.com/dabit3) to see what can be achieved when we bring together talented and like-minded people who are interested in learning about and building on Web3.

Developer DAO draws inpiration from other creator-focused DAOs like [Friends with Benefits](https://twitter.com/fwbtweets), 

Since launch, over 3000 NFT have been sold and over 900 of them have joined the discord server.

## Communication platforms

- **Conversations/Brainstorms:** _Discord_
- **conform discussion/Proposals/Consensus building:** _Discourse_
- **Knowledge repository:** _GitHub, developerdao.com / docs, Notion?, newsletter, Blog (multiple for different content types?), YouTube/similar_

### Communication rhythms

- **Weekly:** project/team/guild calls, Community call, Core team meeting
- **Monthly:** Town Hall
- **Quartely:** Season round-up / launch (replaces months town hall, potentially held via twitter spaces

> - )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Who is responsible?

- **Core team:**

> The closest thing we have currently have to full-time employees. Responsible for executing the mission of the DAO on a day-to-day basis/week-by-week basis (communication, organisations, docs, shepparding governance processes). Must accept minimum commitment to ensure smooth running of DAO (i.e regular meetings, responsibility for specific area/domain)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The closest thing we have currently have to full-time employees. Responsible for executing the mission of the DAO on a day-to-day basis/week-by-week basis (communication, organisations, docs, shepherding governance processes). Must accept minimum commitment to ensure smooth running of DAO (e.g., regular meetings, responsibility for specific area/domain).
```

- **Team/Guilds/Project leads:**

TBD

- **Contributors/Resource pool:**

Members actively invovled in contributing on an ad-hoc basis.

_NEEDS THOUGHT_

- **Community members:**

> The wider, more passive community. Critical for helping the DAO and grow and easy upwards mobiltiy through to other roles (above)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The wider, more passive community. Critical for helping the DAO and grow and easy upward mobility through to other roles (above).
```

## Member journey

### Describe the new user on-boarding process

> To start, the sole way of joining the community is by minting one of the D4R genesis NFTs. Any holder can then access our private discourse server and begin a simple on-boarding process to assign themselves a skill role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start, the sole way of joining the community is by minting one of the D4R genesis NFTs. Any holder can then access our private Discord server and begin a simple on-boarding process to assign themselves a skill role.
```

> We acknowledge this could be more inclusive given the associated gas fee however we believe it is best solution as this time to ensure members have "skin-in-the-game".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We acknowledge this could be more inclusive given the associated gas fee, however we believe it is best solution at this time to ensure members have "skin-in-the-game".
```

- Bounties
- Time bound access via other NFTs
- Apprenticeship / grants

### How can new users catch up?

- Start with our [`#on-boarding`](https://discord.gg/dp3K6xea) channel in discord
- This document when it's finished / other docs we need to make
- Read through town hall and project meetings in [Community repo](https://github.com/Developer-DAO/community).
- Join open project and community calls (see [calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=developerdao1@gmail.com))
- Join the conversation/begin contributing.

### How do you keep new users engaged?

_Not very well defined at the moment and we're relying heavily on individual passion and belief in the opportunity to create something_

Potential easy wins:

- Recognising contributors with defined roles
- POAP NFTs for attending meetings
- Acknowledging the contributions publicly community events
- Actively support each other via:
  - Help with learning
  - Promoting each others work

Future:

- Tracking contributions and rewarding with some representation of value, most likely in the form of a token ($DBUCKS) that corresponds to voting rights in organisation

### How does a user leave?

> _Skipping for now_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collab.Land should recognize the lack of a token and remove access to Discord's private channels.
```
